it's easy to think about encouragement
as an entirely positive force in society
in our personal private and even
political lives you may know people you
may have friends and family who suffered
their whole lives due to lack of
encouragement you may have friends and
family who say when they reflect back on
their own lives if only someone had
encouraged me then I could have pursued
my passions or I would have devoted
myself more to this art form or this
creative project or this hobby or even
just a different job or career path or
they would have enrolled in something
else in college that would have gone
gone back to school and taking new
college courses and started your career
if only someone had encouraged them but
already in this positive assessment of
encouragement we start to get a sense of
the danger that's hidden within this
phenomenon right have you ever had a
friend who was really devoted to doing
stand-up comedy and you know they have
friends and family encouraging them
saying oh yeah you're hilarious you
should do it and they're putting all
their time and energy and all their hard
work into trying to get a career as a
comedian going and the reality is
they're terrible at stand-up comedy they
may be terrible
just for objectively real obvious
reasons that anyone and everyone could
agree with or it may be that they have a
sense of humor that incredibly few
people share not even 1% of people it's
one in a million people share their
sense of humor but here on YouTube
they're on Instagram on Twitter maybe
they have just a few dozen followers who
really share their sense of humor maybe
they're just a few dozen people writing
in to them saying you're hilarious stick
with this do it maybe they're getting
that encouragement over the internet
even though every time they go to do a
stand-up comedy night at a live Club
right let before a live audience in the
city they're living in reaction is
terrible nobody laughs and think about
the mindset people get into this is
especially common with left-wing people
and I live my life surrounded by
people love love you love the left-wing
I love it I'm vegan everyone I know is
left-wing everyone's further to the left
than I am all right you know imagine the
kind of excuses people make oh well on
the Internet these people encouraged me
they appreciate my sense of humor but um
you know in this small town these people
are they're just not sophisticated
enough to presume it you know the
problem is just people in this city the
problem is just people at this
particular comedy club or even problem
is just this capitalist system left-wing
is heavy
well it's heavy on that right where
people want to ignore the judgment of
the free market people want to ignore
Commerce and what that really means what
the implications are even for your
comedy career just like oh well you know
Hollywood these people are just obsessed
with money just capitalism it's just the
free market no man they don't they don't
appreciate my art they appreciate my
sense of humor comedy right people
really cultivate this mentality they
commit to it and they live that lie
right they build up their own sense of
superiority over the judge for the
audience and no no homie no if you're a
comedian you have to love the audience
that's what you have to live for right
you have to be motivated by making those
people laugh
you have to bring your sense of humor
down to their level you have to make
your joke work in a way they can
understand it's all about that you have
to be more commercial than Hollywood you
have to be more motivated by money by
carrying it with the audience that's the
audience you're gonna cater to and
pursue and so on right all right that's
comedy as an example it's even easier to
understand what I'm talking about here
the dangers of encouragement with you
know something like modeling being a
being an actor you know what if you have
a friend and they're trying to do
modeling and they may even be paying a
lot of money for that you know to try
anything you know they just don't have
that pretty of faith and maybe they're
putting a huge amount of effort into
getting in shape at the gym but they
never really get in that great shape and
it's like you know maybe modeling isn't
for you or maybe you should have other
priorities in your life so that at least
this this fantasy you have
a model is a lower priority and isn't
dominating and destroying your life if
those same people may turn around and
say to you in anger why didn't you
encourage me why don't you just tell me
I'm beautiful why don't you just tell me
I'm talented
right and again that that person may
have an Instagram where every day people
are telling you know you could be a
young woman every day people are telling
her how beautiful she is they're people
trying to sleep with her or whatever
that's like well yeah okay you're to
that guy you're beautiful or you're
beautiful enough for some random
strangers in the Internet to try to hook
up with you right doesn't mean you get
to have a modeling career wait look life
is unfair the modeling industry
especially unfair okay this is not a
meritocracy modeling no this is based on
merit or strength of character or hard
work okay
randomly some people are born with
facial features and a body type that
makes money of modeling and most of us
are not and and if you don't have it you
can't fake it so this is even more
extreme than talking about comedy okay
I've made videos in the past that
reflect you know in many ways I'm a
left-wing person like you know for gay
rights and veganism and ecology and many
I have a lot of things in common with
the left-wing I have a lot of things to
come with Bernie Sanders but there are
some ways in which my values my
political program are more conservative
or more stereotypical of a conservative
person and that includes that I'm really
willing to take seriously the judgment
of the free market
I don't just discount and discard and
disregard the whole world of Commerce as
if it's meaningless well I didn't think
I was going to mention this through when
I was a kid when I was a young teenager
maybe 15 16 I read a book on the theory
and philosophy of art I could name the
book and I choose not to and the author
of that book put forward the idea that
art by definition his definition of art
this author art was precisely what you
didn't do
motivated by money so his rationale was
this you know you can see a beautiful
poster advertising soap you know and the
poster they may have paid an artist
team of artists may be incredibly well
painted maybe incredibly beautiful but
but that's not art from his perspective
that's just illustration there are paid
illustrator doing an illustration for an
advertisement whereas a painter who
paints a picture that's not motivated by
money
yes whatever the guy I remember the guy
said look it doesn't matter what his
artistic vision is doesn't matter if
it's political or personal like he may
just be painting a picture of a
beautiful woman because that to him is
what's beautiful
he wants to paint that or whatever
whatever his motivations are that the
theory in this this book the philosophy
was art begins his view precisely where
the commercial instinct ends its precise
of what you're not doing for money and I
really thought about that when I was a
teenager and I think I found that
convincing at like 15 60 but then when I
was more mature I realized no that's a
hundred percent wrong and that's really
a kind of insidious form of left-wing
propaganda or the struggle of
the artist is precisely in understanding
and profoundly accepting that art is
what you do for an audience you know art
is what you do indeed to earn money for
money in as much as you are a
professional artist that's exactly when
it's not a hobby anymore
right when you commit to make star wars
right yes it's an art form it's not an
art form despite the profit motive it's
an art form precisely because the
production of art is for an audience
it's for reaching a large audience
okay so you have to have the
compatibility of Commerce and the
creative arts to really understand
either one you know and you have to have
this really profound appreciation for
the judgement the free market for the
audience and so on and so forth does
does this mean that there has never been
a great movie that failed to find its
audience or that there's there's never
you know there's never been a great work
of art where the audience never happened
to find it of course not
not right but again my view of the world
begins with taking that relationship
between the creative artist in the
audience much more seriously than a
stereotypical left-wing person because
it's so easy for them to get into just
demonizing capitalism and the free
market proceeding from the assumption
that art shouldn't be about earning
money at all that art shouldn't be about
catering to the audience reaching out to
the audience at all right so look
somebody wrote in to me saying that he
feels he he feels I shouldn't be making
youtube videos on popular topics or now
I shouldn't be making videos arguing
about video game addiction arguing
against video game addiction he feels I
shouldn't be making videos arguing about
anisia and other YouTube personalities
and drama and so on these are of course
my most popular videos he's talking
about he thinks I should put all that
away and he really feels it's important
and meaningful for me to just be making
videos about American politics and
European politics now he says a bunch of
flattering things he says encouraging
things right but it's in precisely this
sense that he's wrong right just look at
my channel my channel got in the last 90
days 200,000 views 200,000 views in last
90 days
and the average viewer watched three
videos on my channel that's the more
flattering statistic right people come
to my channel and they watch my videos
not despite the popular videos you
mentioned because of them right I mean
like let's let's face facts here guys
look at the front page in my youtube
channel people are actually coming to my
channel to hear me call vegan gains an
idiot to hear me call an insane an idiot
to hear me call Jordan Peterson an idiot
I think that would fall into the
category of things this guy is talking
about right and then some of those
people will listen to me talk about the
politics of China or the politics the
United States and the Poulter's Europe
some of them will get a little bit
interested in my perspective on politics
or other things right but my videos
about politics
or the least popular videos in my
channel my videos about Bernie Sanders
and a Sagan I would vote for Bernie
Sanders if I'm not American but if I
were I'd vote for reasons however I'm a
critic of Bernie Sanders I have a new
onset of critiques of where he's wrong
where he's dishonest where he's
inaccurate or you know okay I'm not an
uncritical supporter of Bernie Sanders
but I would vote for the guy who
especially given the current
alternatives um
no those are my least popular videos
there's no audience right when people
offer you encouragement don't be
encouraged think analytically think
sympathetically sympathy is an
analytical tool sympathize with the
audience all right
people don't want to hear what I have
disabled politics or if they do want to
hear what I've disabled politics it's
only because they already have some
connection to my personality they have
some respect for me because they've
heard me talk about veganism or in some
cases because they heard the videos I
did on Game of Thrones
that was a mainstream TV TV show a
couple years ago there were a bunch of
people who heard what I said about Game
of Thrones and then they got interested
in hearing what I said about politics
and other topics right that's the
reality of what's going on here you okay
but you have to take seriously the
judgment of the free market and adjust
your motivations accordingly okay it's
just not true that I'm someone who's
hilarious
but you know I'm performing at one
stand-up comedy club where the audience
doesn't find me funny okay I have a very
very peculiar sense of humor that a very
very small percentage of people you know
react to positively I'm somebody who has
you know a view of an analytical view of
politics that a very small number of
people appreciate and that positively
influences the lives that very small
number of people okay but don't get it
twisted what this person is saying to me
that I should devote my time to he is a
hundred and eighty degrees wrong it's
encouragement people need encouragement
people crave encouragement even for
things like studying Chinese as a
which even for things like vegan
activism I understand that all right
there's a deep human need for
encouragement and some people need it
from their parents and some people need
it from their their colleagues their
classmates their contemporaries some
people need it from an audience or
what-have-you but in the 21st century
with the profound reorganization of the
relationship between performer and
audience creative person and audience
okay whatever kind of performance you're
in whatever kind of authorship you're in
as never before there's a kind of onus
on me to refuse to be encouraged just
because one person in a million on
YouTube or one person a million on
Instagram or Facebook sees my political
content and thinks wow this is really
valuable this is what you should devote
your time to know if the videos I were
making about politics were valuable then
I would be making money doing them take
that seriously the commercial failure of
those videos the fact that it is not
worth $100 a month for me to upload
YouTube videos about politics
that is a kind of judgement from the
audience that is a kind of judgment from
the free market that people are very
well-rehearsed in rationalizing and
dismissing but that I am saying to you
now you and I both should learn to take
very seriously